---
templateKey: blog-post
title: 'Trees :||'
date: 2019-10-08T16:33:00.000Z
description: >-
  Let us take a moment to appreciate trees in all their wisdom and for their
  contribution to Chinese Medical theory and ecological diversity
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/huge_redwood.jpg
tags:
  - trees
  - environment
  - medicine
  - growth
  - PNW
---
If you live in the PNW, chances are you’ve seen a tree a two. I recently traveled East and found myself wondering WHERE ARE THE TREES?! Its something we can take for granted here in the PNW because of the sheer abundance. If you find yourself living city life like myself, trees can blend in to the cityscape and we might not fully take them in until the seasons begin to change.

Let us take a moment to appreciate trees in all their wisdom and for their contribution to Chinese Medical theory and ecological diversity in the PNW.

**THE NON PROFIT FOR OCTOBER 2019 THROUGH MARCH 2020 IS…**

For the next six months Well Forest Acupuncture will be donating 1% from every treatment to support Oregon’s very own non-profit, **Friends of Trees**! For the past 30 years, Friends of Trees has been responsible for planting trees all around Portland and Eugene neighborhoods at low cost or for free through their tree scholarship fund. They also work on maintaining watershed health and habitat restoration in the Columbia Gorge and throughout Washington County. On top of all that, they help trees maintain proper growth and support survival by pruning and watering the trees that they plant throughout the community. The best part is, this is all achieved through the time and generosity of the volunteers in the community. Talk about connecting humans with nature!

Volunteer opportunities are abundant in the winter months. I am planning on attending a few, so look out for updates on Instagram and consider joining me!

[CLICK HERE FOR MORE INFORMATION ON WHAT FRIENDS OF TREES IS ABOUT](HTTPS://FRIENDSOFTREES.ORG/ABOUT/)

**How does this relate to Chinese Medicine?**

Trees are a commonly used in metaphors within many healing arts. They might be used for visualization techniques like in “grounding” ourselves or remaining “rooted” when life’s storms challenge us. In Chinese Medicine, wood is one of the 5 Elements that guide much of Chinese Medical theory. It is associated with the liver and the liver energy that moves qi up and out in all directions, like the branches of a tree. This is crucial in helping Chinese Medical practitioners recognize when there is stagnation, so they can restore the smooth flow of qi in the body. This means trees help YOU feel better. Additionally, tree bark, leaves and flowers are commonly used in Chinese herbal formulas. Ever seen a Hawthorn tree? A Magnolia tree? Yep, you’re looking right at Chinese herbal medicine.

Theres so much more to chat about when it comes to trees, but we’ll leave it at this for now. Take a walk, hug a tree, sit next to one, look at one…give one a thumbs up. At the very least thank it for its contribution to the oxygen you breathe.

For the love of trees,

Kecia Fox, MSOM, LAc
